So CSS, let's make sure we describe this.
CSS, which I'm sure most of
you have heard about or used,
allows us to determine on these
elements that we've structured on
the page a little bit
more about how they look.
And actually it's a beautifully
sophisticated language,
it's actually really powerful.
To a point of fault, we're gonna
realize that if we write applications,
UI applications, the biggest challenge
is gonna turn out to be maintaining
consistency between the underlying
data and what the user sees.
So you probably make sure you only have
one place that you can store underlying
data that describes what the user sees.
Not four, and certainly not the one
that's also used for styles.
And yet actually, it's almost like the CSS
team goes, the rest is not always perfect.
So let's try and do it here as well.
It's like that famous ICCD
where they add new standards.
You have a unifying standard,
and now you have another standard
on top of the existing ones.
Yeah, CSS is gonna be what allows
us to make this button blue or
determine the exact pixels or
location of these elements,
not the overall order and structure,
that's HTML, but the exact pixels.
But also can actually store data,
are you displaying or
are you not displaying this element.
That's state, that's state,
that's gonna turn out to be quite tricky.
For our purposes here,
let's just add it in.
You wanna see another legacy
feature of the web browser?
How do we add it in?
I'm sure we load it in directly, right?
No, we link to it from our HTML file.
We add that as a element here
linking to a style sheet,
which is a file, and
we have to use that name there,
which is a file that gives
us a list of styles.
And I say we're not dwelling
particularly here on CSS,
but it's a chance for us to at least see.
So there it is, that's gonna add on our
DOM, add a list of elements in C++.
That's gonna add a link
to a style sheet which is
gonna turn on and
switch on our CSS engine.
And there's the linked element,
there it is.
There's the link element and
that's gonna link to our CSS.
And that is going to switch on our CSS
parser that's gonna read that CSS code and
create in C++ as well
an object just like this,
we'll think of it as a list,
that has two parts to it.
The first part has a list of all
the possible rules, like for
whenever you see a button apply
a background of slateblue,
and then a second part that
actually fully mirrors
the model of the page, all the elements.
And so we'd have text, and the one we're
interested in is button that would be
set with background to slateblue, and
that would make our button here blue.
And we're not here to dwell per se on CSS,
but
just to see we have another
model of our web page,
this one describing the styles, and
this is known as the CSS object model.
Object, it's a technical
structure of this but
we can use a list model representing the
information to be displayed on the page.
Our layout and render engine will
then analyze both of these and
determine what to actually
display on our pixels.
Goal one, display content complete.
It really is that minimal.
It really is that basic.
As I say, interesting,
archaic maybe design feature to
have our styles loaded in
a different language, maybe not.
Well, and then we load it in by adding
it to our list of elements on the page.
But this is not one that's displayed.
It's just there on the list of elements.
Definitely not.
If you think about other places where
user interfaces are built from scratch,
like Swift, other development environments
for building user interfaces from scratch.
You ain't doing it through this kinda ad
hoc joining up of pieces that were not
designed for that.
In fact, to be honest, that's probably
why Apple said we're building
a brand new programming runtime or
programming development environment
Swift to build out user interfaces.
Because we probably were joining up pieces
from legacy application designd for
the Mac, that then got
transferred to be using on iOS.
So they said, let's start from scratch and
let's build out this entire
development environment from scratch.
But even then they can do it,
they own the entire stack, it's Apple.
They own the entire stack of development,
not in web browser engineering,
where each feature is owned by
a different regulatory body.
And over the last 30 years,
each of those has changed hands, and
there's been multiple different
browser teams all trying to do it.
So we are joining up pieces
here from the start.
All right, so just two simple goals.
One, display content.
And two, let users change it,
but we're done with goal one.
We're actually done.
Yeah, exactly, woo, well done, everybody.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> We displayed content data from inside
our computer, and
we used HTML and CSS to do it.